welcome to this video in this video you
will learn how to develop winning
trading strategy so without further ado
let's get going first of all why even
bother developing your own strategy why
not just copy someone else's well
everyone is different and the best
trading strategy for me might be very
different from the best trading strategy
for you everyone has a different
personality different preferences
different strengths and different
weaknesses so why not develop a trading
strategy that is perfect for you and
your situation and your strengths
wouldn't that just be great well in this
video you will learn how to do exactly
that
this video is especially useful for
those of you that currently don't even
have a concrete own training strategy
without a clear trading strategy with
the real edge that tells you exactly
what to do and when to do it you won't
come very far in the world of trading so
listen up so first let me present you
with the right approach to developing
your own trading strategy it is very
important that the approach developing a
trading strategy in a professional
manner otherwise you won't get any
professional results if you're thinking
right now you could just go to some
charting platform watched a few stocks
here and there and then develop your own
trading strategy from that then you're
wrong let me tell you the right approach
I recommend using the scientific method
when developing a trading strategy you
should think of yourself as a scientist
that is trying to find a cure for some
serious disease you can't just randomly
mixed random different chemicals and
thereby stumble upon the cure instead
you have to have a clear plan and you
should know what you're doing
so let me introduce you to the
scientific method when developing your
own trading strategy first of all you
have to observe something so you start
with an observation a trading example
here would be let's say certain stocks
that have had three or more major green
days behave in a certain way namely that
they have a big red day after those big
three green days and this is just a
random example I'm not saying that this
is real the next step would be to ask a
question based on your observation so
for instance is the big red day that
occurs after multiple major green days
predictable and if so how can you take
advantage of it
so after asking your question you form a
hypothesis we form a proposition that
tries to explain the observed behavior
for instance the first green to red move
after three or more major green days is
a signal for a reversal after doing that
you collect data experiment around and
test your hypothesis the trading example
here would be to track certain stocks
that behave in a certain way
alternatively you could also bag test so
after collecting data on your hypothesis
it's time to analyze that data so you
order the track data and analyze it for
instance you try to identify patterns
and anomalies and other similar things
after doing all that you draw a
conclusion and I believe this conclusion
answers your initial question and
evaluates your hypothesis for example if
we go back to the example with a three
Green Day's followed by a major red day
the conclusion could be the big red day
after multiple major red days is
predictable and a fast red to green move
could be used as a reliable entry signal
for
or position depending on your conclusion
you might want to start this entire
process over again the reason why I
really recommend using the scientific
method is because it allows you to
identify a true edge in the market it
allows you to find setups that are truly
predictable and that you can make money
off consistently every trading strategy
needs a real edge if you don't have an
edge you won't be profitable with the
real and true edge I mean something
predictable that can be taken advantage
of reliably and on a consistent basis if
it's not reliable or doesn't occur more
than once you can't really develop a
trading strategy around it let's say one
thing happens once and it's predictable
then you can't trade off of this one
thing over and over again because it
only happened once that's why it has to
happen multiple times be reliable and
occur on a consistent basis if you're
unsure what I mean with the real edge
just think about casinos casinos have
real statistical edges and that's why
they make money no casino would be open
if they wouldn't have an edge so the
goal is to develop a trading strategy
that allows you to trade like a casino
with that out of the way let me
introduce you to the most important
components of a winning trading strategy
I created this diagram that symbolizes a
trading strategy so we start with the
foundation the foundation is the most
important part if the foundation is
unstable or doesn't even exist the
entire thing will collapse
so really focus on getting a good
foundation and by foundation I of course
mean a true edge
an important characteristic about the
real statistical edge is that it works
in the long run it doesn't have to work
on every trade regardless of how good
your strategy is there will be some
losing trades but just focus that in the
long run you will come out profitably
next up we have the first pillar which
is the set up and this is what helps you
identify your edge the more concrete and
objective this is the better the setup
could be something like a chart pattern
but it could also be something
completely different
if we go back to the example that I
talked about earlier the set up would be
three major green days followed by a big
red day or something like that
and like I just said make this setup
concrete for instance say that only
stocks in a certain price range should
be traded or stocks with a certain
market cap that show it certain behavior
or something like that the next pillar
is your personality and personal
preferences like I said in the
introduction of this video everyone is
different and everyone has personal
preferences you have your strengths and
I have my strengths and we both have
different weaknesses or least that's
likely it is essential that you develop
a trading strategy that is designed to
fit your personal preferences and your
strengths and just to give you an
example for instance if you have a ten
thousand dollar trading account your
strategy must be adjusted to be suitable
for such an account size you could not
trade a strategy that requires millions
of dollars the different preference
could be if you have a full-time job and
can't monitor the markets very
frequently then you probably shouldn't
develop a trading strategy that requires
you to do so if you're bad at making
decisions under time pressure you should
also account for that in your trading
strategy
I hope these examples give you an idea
of how personal preferences and your
personality should influence the
development of your trading strategy the
third and final pillar is adaptation and
refinement developing a trading strategy
is not a short process that you do for a
few days or weeks and then you're done
you're never really done markets always
change so you always have to adapt and
refine your trading strategy to the
changing conditions the trading strategy
will never be perfect you can always
improve upon certain aspects so try to
do that last but not least is the roof
which is the execution of your trading
strategy this is where everything comes
together without the roof your strategy
wouldn't be complete this is where
everything else is translated into real
results everything else is the theory
where's the execution is the practice
executing your trades can be done in a
variety of different ways for instance
could theoretically create a trading
algorithm that trades your strategy but
you could also of course trade your
strategies manually I hope this diagram
gives you a good idea of what you should
include in your trading strategy now I
want to present you with another
approach that's also very good in
developing a trading strategy this
approach works just like a funnel in the
beginning you have something very vague
and unspecific and then you filter out
certain things and in the end you have
something very specific which would be
your trading strategy and here is an
example of such a thing the first level
of your formula could be asset class for
instance you choose which assets you
want to trade in your strategy this
could be stocks options futures
commodities Forex or whatever the next
level could be the timeframe
you want to focus on short-term day
trading or swing trading or long-term
investing then that could be other
specifications for your chosen asset
class for example if you chose stocks
you could further filter out those with
a market cap under a certain amount or
price over a certain amount or just
filter out stocks that trade less than a
certain amount of volume further
specifications could also be which
sector the stocks are in the float or
certain technical indicators and more
even more examples would be something
like price action and use events I hope
this gives you an idea of how you could
go about in developing your trading
strategy with this funnel approach now
let me end this video by drawing a
conclusion so first of all what exactly
is the goal of developing a trading
strategy the goal of developing a
strategy is that in the end we have a
trading strategy that perfectly matches
your personality and takes advantage of
your strengths and that has a true edge
a good way to test if you have a real
trading strategy is to put every single
aspect and detail of your current
strategy to words if you can write down
everything from the entry to adjustments
to the exit and explanations of
everything and why you're doing
everything then you have a strategy and
if you can do this
I really recommend doing this because if
you do this you can always put that
piece of paper or notes or wherever you
wrote it on next to yourself while
trading and if you're ever unsure about
what to do you could just look at that
piece of paper and your question would
be answered so if you reach this point
you go from being the gambler to
becoming the casino a few last tips
before I end this video
that are important when developing a
trading strategy is that you are
consistent you have a consistent
approach you don't change your approach
every few trades because if you do that
then you don't have a real strategy the
next tip is use data when developing a
strategy if you don't use data then you
can't really say if you have a real edge
or not furthermore never stop refining
markets change and so should your
strategy there's no such thing as a
perfect strategy and also have the right
mindset don't expect to create a trading
strategy that will make you millions
overnight that won't help them have
realistic expectations in addition to
that be professional otherwise your
results won't be and last but not least
work like a scientist remember you're a
scientist that's trying to find the
formula to the market this will take a
lot of trial and error but it's very
important to not give up if you achieve
your goals it will be well worth the
time and effort believe me thanks so
much for watching I really really hope
you enjoyed this video and learned a lot
if you have questions about anything or
just comments please let me know in the
comment section below otherwise it would
be great if you could subscribe if you
are interested in content like this see
you in the next video
you